Now what would be an example for a componentDidUpdate being interesting?
Well that could be when we change the stock symbol that's passed in from outside because maybe in our
application which we're creating with the help of the components we're using, like this ucStockPrice
component,
maybe in this application, we also have some way for the user to change the stock symbol.
So it's not just that baked-in input inside of the component
but also some other logic in our app, certainly not something that is impossible to think of.
Well in such a case,
we of course want to react to a change because right now, we can always simulate this of course and
I go to the elements and I change the stock symbol here to MSFT,
this never gets reflected in the price that is fetched here, this also never gets entered into this input
field here by the way.
That is something I would like to change.
Now for that in the stock price component, first of all I can of course update the stock user input
initially with a stock symbol that was set in componentDidLoad,
so here when I know I have a stock symbol, I can set this stock user input equal to this stock symbol
and that at least ensures that we start with Apple filled in here.
Now to also unlock this button right from the start,
I now just need to set this stock input valid equal to true here because I know it is valid now of
course,
I initialized it with a symbol after all.
Now this is the initial case but this still doesn't help us with updating this symbol like this
and that just simulates how it would be done when we programmatically do that through Javascript.
For that,
componentDidUpdate will help though.
WillUpdate would also fire whenever this changes
but this will be done before the render function is called for the first time,
I want to do it after that is done because I will make an async request anyways and I want to ensure that
this request doesn't start before render is called
because if then returns too early, we can actually end up in a case where our result of the API call
is not picked up correctly.
So here in componentDidUpdate,
I will add an if check and see if this stock symbol is different to the previous value of this stock symbol.
Now for that, we have to store the initial value
first of all and I will do this in a normal property of this class,
initial stock symbol is a string and in componentDidLoad
when we have a stock symbol, I will set this initial stock symbol equal to the entered stock symbol and
I only do that so that in componentDidUpdate, I can check if this stock symbol which will
be the updated value is unequal to this initial stock symbol
because only if it is not equal,
I want to fetch a new price, if it is still equal there is no sense in fetching a new price.
So then I will fetch a new price for this stock symbol.
Now the
fact of this is that
now if I save this and I reload,
if in the elements tab, I change Apple to MSFT, to Microsoft,
it indeed does update the price here and we see a new request was made here.
Now actually two requests
because the first one was made when the stock symbol, my attribute resulted in a new value for a stock
symbol and hence componentDidUpdate getting called, that gets called whenever a prop decorated property
or a state decorated property changes and then after fetchStockPrice was done, so whenever we called
this fetch price in here, this re-ran and since we don't update our initial stock symbol, we basically
ran this again because our initial stock symbol is still Apple, so I should set this initial stock symbol
equal to stock symbol here too
after I got into this if block. And now with that if I reload, clear this and now under elements, I change
this to MSFT,
now we also see there is only one network call being made.
So this works
but of course this is a little complicated,
just to update one value with this extra check and this extra property we have to manage, there must be
an easier way right?
And there is.